CIP-0021 | Add Babbage changes (#8)
vacuumlabs/CIPs: CIP-0021/README.md

**Outputs**

> A new, "post Alonzo", output format has been introduced in the Babbage era which uses a map instead of an array to store the output data. For now, both the "legacy" (array) and "post Alonzo" (map) output formats are supported by HW wallets but we encourage everyone to migrate to the "post Alonzo" format as support for the "legacy" output format might be removed in the future. A single transaction can include outputs with both formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new, "post Alonzo", output format has been introduced in the Babbage era which uses a map instead of an array to store the output data. For now, both the "legacy" (array) and "post Alonzo" (map) output formats are supported by HW wallets but we encourage everyone to migrate to the "post Alonzo" format as support for the "legacy" output format might be removed in the future. Both formats can be mixed within a single transaction, both in outputs and in the collateral return output.
```

_Legacy outputs_

> Outputs containing no multi-asset tokens must be serialized as a simple tuple, i.e. `[address, coin, ?datum_hash]` instead of `[address, [coin, {}], ?datum_hash]`. In addition, including `datum_hash` is only allowed if the payment part of the output's `address` is a script hash.

Reviewer: We should drop the restriction "In addition, including `datum_hash` is only allowed if the payment part of the output's `address` is a script hash."

It's already done in Ledger. The reason is that datum can be used to distinguish non-script outputs to solve the double-satisfaction problem (see https://input-output-rnd.slack.com/archives/G010N9UFDNH/p1654851566871099?thread_ts=1654847028.027219&cid=G010N9UFDNH).

Author: True, removed. It's implemented this way also in Trezor, I just didn't realise while editing the CIP, thanks 👍 https://github.com/vacuumlabs/CIPs/pull/8/commits/aa212f76214f73c466b85879fdb5d3891499b3dc#diff-5f939a65a33a4da4a1743d1bcafda7134e786496e39b9494eaf287da04ea2187R79

_Post Alonzo outputs_

> No additional restrictions apply.

Reviewer: Ledger expects non-empty inline datum and ref. script. Maybe it's not necessary, but it seems impossible for them to be empty anyway:
https://input-output-rnd.slack.com/archives/G010N9UFDNH/p1654246117932079?thread_ts=1654160314.762289&cid=G010N9UFDNH

Author: I tried mentioning it -> https://github.com/vacuumlabs/CIPs/pull/8/commits/aa212f76214f73c466b85879fdb5d3891499b3dc#diff-5f939a65a33a4da4a1743d1bcafda7134e786496e39b9494eaf287da04ea2187R83.

Tools interacting with HW wallets might need to be updated in order to continue being compatible with HW wallets because of canonical CBOR serialization format, which is being enforced since multi-sig support.

## Tools

> [`cardano-hw-interop-library`](https://github.com/vacuumlabs/cardano-hw-interop-lib) or [`cardano-hw-cli'](https://github.com/vacuumlabs/cardano-hw-cli) (which uses the interop library) can be used to validate or transform transactions into a HW wallet compatible format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`cardano-hw-interop-library`](https://github.com/vacuumlabs/cardano-hw-interop-lib) or [`cardano-hw-cli'](https://github.com/vacuumlabs/cardano-hw-cli) (which uses the interop library) can be used to validate or transform transactions into a HW wallet compatible format if possible.
```
